What I'm going to ask everybody to do
is to just adopt a beginner's mindset.
And I want you for a moment to stop and
imagine that you don't understand
how to program at all.
This is where we are going to
approach feature complexity and
how we start to think
about code in general.
And so in that, I want to introduce
the four elements of programming.
And this I would have to
say if I had to stop and
think about what is the most
important thing that I've
realized after 20 years of programming,
this is it.
This is my master thesis
on programming and so
carrying on with the Karate Kid theme,
as I stopped and
I looked back, and
I've been programming for
20 years and I've written a lot,
a lot, a lot of code.
And quite frankly for
probably the first 10 years I was not very
good at all and, it's not that I
wasn't good at all, as in bad.
But I hadn't reached
a level of proficiency,
that I would kind of expect
from a senior architect.
And I started looking at this arc,
of myself programming and
how I learned things.
And I realized that when I'm programming,
I'm essentially doing the same
four things over and over.
There are four things somebody said
when you program tell me what you do and
I would say it's four things, that's it.
I'm describing things, nouns,
and performing actions,
verbs, I'm making decisions,
conditions and
then repeating the iteration, that's it.
When I program it's four things, nouns,
verbs, conditions, and iterators.
You can take the most complex code
that I'm writing right now and
by accomplishing, I would say the most
sophisticated large scale code and
everything that I'm doing can be
distilled into these four elements.
Nouns, verbs, or
data structures, functions,
conditionals and iterators and
what's interesting about this,
I arrived at this conclusion
as I was kind of going
on this rant with some
of my apprentices and
I was wanting them,
to simplify their thinking and
they were just making it way too complex.
In a bit of frustration I kind
of stamped my foot and I said,
everything that I'm asking you to do, in
fact, everything I know about programming.
I can write on a single piece of paper and
they're, really, challenge accepted,
go and in the process of articulating it,
this is where, I arrived at.
These are, the four things,
that, I'm doing,
now what's interesting is,
I quickly went down,
I wrote this, articulated it,
that at the same time,
this lovely individual.
I forget her name, off top my head but she
wrote a book salt, fat, heat and acid or
might be salt, fat, acid, heat but
it's a great book on cooking.
I think there seems to seem nosrat or
I'll think of in a second but if anybody
knows that they can paste the link in but
she was talking about when she is cooking.
That there are four fundamental
things that you need
to understand that if you understand salt,
fat, acid,
heat that you can essentially be
effective in any kitchen in any context.
And there's a really good
like series on Netflix,
she's amazing and highly check it out but
to me was kind of this vindication
of is it possible that this is true?
And then salt, fat, acid he came out and
I'm, well, if it's for
cooking then certainly it can be for
programming.
Now, this is what's interesting
about this, again, we're going back
to the beginners mindset because I
really want to start at nothing and
I want to build up a foundation of
how we think about programming.
So I realized that I've
been doing these things
since I was a very, very small child.
That as engineers,
the things that we use to write
software in these techniques
we intuitively know
as small children from
the moment we can talk,
and carry on a conversation and
communicate.
The problem is that we haven't
trained ourselves to think in
the level of precision required
to communicate that in code.
But the things that we're doing and we're
doing every day without thinking about it,
we've been doing for years.
Let me prove this with a thought exercise.
Let's pretend that lunch is served,
and it's a healthy
delicious lunch of donuts,
which is probably my favorite lunch.
And we have three trays of donuts,
we have a blue tray, a green tray, and
a yellow tray, okay, everybody,
we can agree this what we're looking at.
Now, if I said to you,
or any small child, so
imagine a five year old,
do you see those trays
of donuts, okay,
do you see the green tray?
On that tray,
find all the donuts that have
sprinkles on them,
then bring them back to me.
Is that confusing at all,
probably not, pretty straightforward.
If you see the tray of donut trace, don't
go to the green tray find all the ones
with sprinkles and bring them back to me.
Now, what's interesting what I said
in just human possible language,
you can also articulate that in code.
Trace.find, iterate over the tray,
If it's green, return it and
so now what you're seeing is
an iterator and a condition.
So I'm looking for the green tray then
I'm taking the selected tray with
the donuts and I'm filtering through.
So I'm iterating and
I'm saying if this doughnut has sprinkles
put it in this new tray and return it.
And then child.fetch sprinkled doughnuts,
which by the way,
both my children have this method and
they're very good at it,
100% code coverage but we look at this.
And the statement here, it makes a lot of
sense, when we reframe it around nouns,
verbs, conditions and iterators,
we realize we can express something
that is very easy for
us to understand as human beings in code.
And so this is why I'm pulling us
back to this very foundation of,
let's start ground zero.
And let's build up on these concepts and
let's make something.